as you've probably surmised by now I had
an extreme emotional reaction to this
you don't even have to know an ex
Wiegand personally to experience this I
think but generally speaking I feel like
a vegans feel very betrayed when they
hear about ex vegans right it's stupid
it's not like he made this post to
betray me or my fellow vegans right like
it wasn't about that I don't think but
you feel that you even if you have that
camaraderie with your fellow vegans you
know you can meet someone and have
absolutely nothing in common but you
have this in common this this this that
matters so much more than any other
trivialities you know at least you have
this in common something I've said to
many of my fellow vegans normally by
Skype sometimes face-to-face I've said
to them openly and directly look if you
stop being an activist or if you never
become an activist I still want to be
your friend so that many many times and
some people get it and some people don't
and some people take a minute and then
they really understand what I'm saying
and why I'm saying I said to one guy
look I don't know what your next job is
gonna be he was at I'm really a very
active vegan activist I said you know
you could get a job on a cruise ship you
could join the army you could just get
up you could get a job as a real estate
broker
you could just get a busy job but vegan
activism might disappear from your life
I still want to know you
I still want stay in touch I still want
to be a friend in contrast to some other
vegans like - right - never I do not see
activism as the moral baseline I do not
see my activism is something everyone is
obliged to do I definitely do not see
activism something everyone can do my
current circumstance is living in a
school in China aside from making snarky
remarks to the other students at this
school
there is absolutely no no activism in my
life know what direct hands-on icism
well I'm well I'm living chat none and
again if you get a job on a cruise ship
unless you want to make snarky remarks
while you're swabbing the decks or
washing dishes
your your there is no activism in your
life in that kind of job either any of
you guys who have a job on a cruise ship
we're managing to watch this video but
feel free to write in and send me some
eat me I'd love to hear cut rate um but
what if they stopped being vegan what if
it wasn't that they stopped being a
vegan activist what if it was that they
voluntarily you know not being forced
not being in the army not being trapped
on a desert island what if those people
actually went back to eating meat
wearing leather drinking cow milk as as
friendly as the gesture is to say look I
still want to know you even if you have
nothing to do with began activism in the
future for whatever reason do I still
want to know them if they stopped being
vegan probably not probably not I can
think of extraordinary circumstances
extraordinary reasons why people would
go back to eating meat and I can think
of extraordinary people where the person
is so extraordinary that you still want
to know them differently even though
they're going back to you mean but if
we're really being honest about the ex
vegan thing I probably don't want to be
a friend anymore I don't I don't think
that reflects well on me I don't I say
all the time of the channel I'm not a
nice guy you know and these feelings I
think reflect an interesting fissure in
how we think about veganism how we think
about this in veganism politically and
intellectually and emotionally because
on the one hand veganism is a diet and
we think about it as a diet and the
other hand we think about veganism is a
social movement even if it is not a
social movement in our lives okay now
what do I mean by that you may be
watching this in Berlin you may be
watching this in London England
you
maybe part of a real social movement
connected to veganism you may be but the
vast majority of people watching my
channel are not the vast majority people
watching this what one of the reasons
why there's so much dynamism so much
energy on YouTube and digital veganism
on the Internet is that so many vegans
live alone that they're struggling
against loneliness and isolation they're
not a member of any kind of movement any
kind of vegan organization they may not
have a single vegan friend or in their
City they may have one or two vegan
friends they struggle to get along with
they may feel deeply alienated from
their own families you know going to
Thanksgiving going to any holiday
Christmas festival you know to be with
people who drink alcohol and eat meats
and where that's the whole focus of
their lives you know if the non vegans
lives around them obviously you know
alienation from your co-workers here I'm
it's a very real barrier between me and
the other students at the school the
fact that I'm vegan and they're not and
it comes up not every day but if you
know the reality of that be a separate
video if I start telling funny stories
about that the idea that veganism is a
movement is misleading it has the
potential to be a movement as the
potential will be many movements all
around the world and you may be one of
the lucky people in Berlin or London or
what-have-you you may be part of a
dynamic movement that makes your life
more meaningful more rewarding and
you're you you may be part of a highly
organized vegan group but if so
recognize you're in a tiny minority and
one of the reason why there's so many of
us on the internet trying to get
connected trying to meet one another I
try to encourage that through my patreon
group is for people to get usefully make
friends get organized figure out how we
can work together even if it's on a
small project like making an illustrated
children's book I'm still into that by
the way we got I think we've got like
five graphic designers in my patreon
groups like five of my patreon
supporters are graphic designers you
know so there's still this possibility
of making and publishing a children's
book about veganism as I've said before
activism can mean different things to
different people it's not necessarily
standing on the street and screaming all
kinds of productive
ways to use your time try to make the
world a better place but thinking about
veganism as a movement even if you are
not in any way in contact with a
movement even if you're alone or you
just you just eat a vegan diet and are
in no way politically active thinking
about it as a movement tends toward
exclusivity which is fine I'm here to be
honest about that I'm not here to say
exclusivity is a bad thing thinking
about veganism as a diet tends toward a
kind of world embracing inclusivity and
I have talked about that at length on
this channel if you're new you haven't
seen those videos that's a while back I
said many times on this channel if
veganism is for everyone then it's not
just for people you like it's not just
for people you agree with it's not just
for people to share your political
values right if you're left-wing how do
you feel when you meet a vegan who votes
for Donald Trump how do you meet vegans
who are right-wing how do you if you're
an atheist I'm a nihilistic atheist can
you really cooperate with a vegan who
was born and raised Hindu can you really
cooperate with a vegan who was born and
raised Christian warm and Jewish yeah
and I've seen that I mean you know most
people in my life are left-wing because
I spend all this time on universities
you know the the range of political
views among my professors goes from
left-wing to communist myself what's
nobody in the Middle definitely nobody
conservative or what-have-you
um within the vegan demi-monde it's
quite possible that the only people
you're dealing with are far left wingers
or are hippies or what-have-you and my
political realism in most countries I'm
somewhere near the center depends
depends what political spectrum we're
talking about I'm a kind of pragmatist
who's often in the middle of the
political spectrum but do you have it in
your heart to really reach out to and
cooperate with someone who is for
example a conservative Christian now I
keep saying I'm not a nice guy but I can
tell you that I do and I've had some odd
moments though the vegans where I
mentioned you know another vegan I've
been talking to we're trying to work
with and they go oh yeah she's Christian
and you can feel the the chill helpful
I'm overtly a nihilistic atheist anyone
who's Christian who has the fortitude to
watch this channel and put up with my
with my openly atheist musings I
appreciate that you got it in your heart
to come here and find common ground with
me and I've got it in my heart to find
common ground with you but if veganism
is for everyone and as a diet we believe
it is for everyone if you believe it is
for everyone then that really has
profound implications intellectually
emotionally and politically for
embracing others inviting others in etc
but that is - veganism thought of as a
diet as a movement as a community in
terms of actually having an organization
then you get into these much more
difficult questions of exclusivity right
um it's really interesting to me how
many people completely misinterpreted
what I thought was so clearly stated in
my video that's titled in English on
community that videos been translated
into Spanish and German into Finnish not
yet Swedish Chinese the title is
slightly different but the the video on
community people written to me saying oh
well you know if you support the idea of
a vegan community that means you support
the idea of inviting everyone of
including everyone of embracing everyone
and I've had to write back to people
saying no it doesn't community is
exclusive not inclusive and every single
example I give in that video is
exclusive communities do confer benefits
they pool their resources and that video
talks with that a lot they work together
towards common goals but they are not
all inclusive not at all and none of
those examples are inclusive how
inclusive is the gay community that
video more than 10 times mentions that
he talks a lot probably talks about the
gay community more than any other
example as a significant precedent that
vegans need to learn from need to learn
from the six
s of the gay rights movement movement
and organized gay communities in places
like Toronto in the Western world we're
not talking about Saudi Arabia as that
video mentions also do you think the gay
community includes everyone I don't
think it includes me look I'm a
completely heterosexual man furthermore
I've praised you know the gay rights
movement in its capacity to you know
cooperate to be effective but at the
same time to recognize its own fractious
and fragmentary nature right gay groups
tend not to get along that well with
lesbian groups with bisexual groups with
various specialized transgender groups
you know anywhere Toronto would have you
look at the actual structure of an LGBT
movement it's not one movement it's a
whole bunch of separate movements that
video mentions of other videos mentioned
so they really have the capacity to
cater to different specialized interests
just different forms of socialization
you know the people want to have
separate club nights people want to have
separate social events but they also
want to have separate legal
representation they want to have
separate voices in the movement and
wonderful it's great and it recognizes
again that's true diversity within what
we can call as one category gay rights
right now if you're in a very small town
of course you don't have that luxury I
think you know if you go to Alburquerque
you know laughs remember being in
Albuquerque I remember going to the only
gay club in Albuquerque at the time
maybe I'm maybe I'm exact maybe the
others are secret members one one gay
nightclub in Albuquerque so you know the
gays and lesbians and all the different
categories of trips they all had to get
along at the save the same gay clubs you
know good way Toronto is not Albuquerque
yeah obviously there are towns up there
smaller than Albuquerque too so this is
this is out of date probably today
probably Albuquerque has ten ten gay
clubs today whatever but you know
fundamentally I you know I remember I
went to a Jewish communities at once in
in Victoria BC I went once and it did
freak me out there were some people
there at this event
were not Jewish and who had no
connection Judaism and no interest and
you know the question is why are you
here you know the same would be true
Toronto had a huge you know
well-organized Jamaican community we had
different community groups for each of
the islands you know Jamaicans have a
separate organization from Haitians
Haitians have several ization from
Dominican Dominican Republic you know
and they do cooperate I mean like but
just really describe loosely with gay
community you know the fact that your
cooperation doesn't mean you don't have
separate representation and separate
genuinely exclusive community groups
this community but get a say just
briefly it would be weird if I just
showed up and tried to hang out at a
Jamaican event I was no reason for me to
be there's no connection between me and
Jermaine community if I'm married to a
Jamaican woman that's different if I've
been studying the history and politics
of Jamaica at university that's
different if I just got back from
Jamaica if I you know I'm a white person
but I've been living in Jamaica and
involved in Jamaican political issues or
Jamaican culture if anything if there's
some meaningful connection then maybe I
can show up at a Jamaican community
event and maybe they'll accept me and
maybe maybe we'll build bridges maybe
maybe they'll reject me maybe they don't
want me there right but all community is
exclusive
there's always exclusivity there's
always a question of whether or not
you're admitted and it's cut the other
example using video Judaism Mormonism
they're all exclusive they're not it's
not like the idea of the diet where it's
for everyone and on some level
everyone's welcome and the challenge to
you is can you really be welcoming and
accepting enough if you believe that
veganism is for everybody
beyond that so already community is
exclusive when we move from community to
effective activism to actual
organizations those are way more
exclusive because now we really require
you to be a highly effective person
right so I mean you have you know we're
thinking back over the last 50 years gay
communities which again as I've said
they include things like nightclubs and
restaurants but they also
clewd legal funds and lawyers offices
what-have-you active gay rights
activists this is a much smaller number
of people within that community concept
extremely exclusive not just anyone can
join not just anyone can participate and
Kent the idea of the street protest it's
a very misleading paradigm the people
who are really doing the work who are
really putting the in the hours
ultimately people are making financial
commitments or financial sacrifices to
work long hours over many years in gay
rights as a movement this is a much more
narrow category of people now again like
in Toronto talk about the Caribbean
community within that you have specific
organizations Jamaicans Haitians
Dominicans etc um you know anyway goes
on and on uh and they do sometimes
organize big events that are for all
Caribbeans uh but someone who's a
dedicated organizer not even their
full-time job but they're part-time job
someone who's really putting in the time
who do they work with do they work with
anyone and everyone do they have open
meetings where anyone can show up like a
street protest or like a street festival
or street party no they have to
cultivate friendships with colleagues
who can really get the work done with
them
right community is exclusive friendship
is unequal you may have some friends who
are gambling addicts you may have some
friends who are drug addicts you may
have some friends who are diagnosed with
bipolar disorder diagnosed diagnosed
schizophrenic but you know you may have
a friend who's diagnosed with manic
depression what-have-you you may have a
friend where you like them or you love
them you appreciate some things about
them but you know they have some mental
problems you know they have some limits
for what they can do you have a friend
you like them they're just disorganized
they can't show up on time they can't
get worked and they can't be relied on
okay a friend or a colleague who you
actually rely on to be part of the
organized political moving with you
where you say this is someone I trust
enough to sign checks on the same bank
account
this is someone who is part of the same
political movement in that strict sense
of the term not a bunch of people on
Facebook giving each other the thumbs up
where you really work together and again
ultimately there's a financial sacrifice
involved even if it's just time it's
time you're taking where you're not at
work
you're not with your family you're not
dating you're not skiing you're not
living so you're devoting time to a real
political movement again whether that's
gay rights or you know Caribbean
community activism or veganism it's very
exclusive it's very demanding right this
comes back to this contrast I'm alluding
to uh the feeling of sorrow at losing a
fellow vegan under that heading of
veganism diet and it's for everyone in
contrast to when you're really trying to
get stuff done when you're really
thinking about veganism as a movement
whether or not you really have contact
with just conceptualizing it as a
movement may have no contact with a real
with a real movin with real political
organization and then someone showed
themselves to be a flake someone shows
themselves to lack the discipline
necessary to be a vegan and you think
good one less flake for me to deal with
one less flake wasting my time poison
leaving the body weakness leaving the
organization I don't need you I need to
work with people who can show up at I'm
organized lunch I need to work with
people who are rewarding my level of
commitment with their own high level of
commitment high level of confidence I
need to work with people who don't just
have the self-discipline necessarily a
vegan diet but who over the next five
years over the next 15 years are really
gonna make something positive happen so
again
veganism as a diet it's kind of global
all encompassing all embracing all
accepting focus that brings with it a
kind of strange emotional undertow of
feeling so sad when people leave it when
people fail at it when people go back to
eating meat for whatever reason you
this in common this this this that
matters so much more than any other
trivialities you know at least you have
this in common so you know when they
rejects five that core belief that you
have in common it does feel like
betrayal you know there's so few of you
guns as it is and then there's a much
more exclusive concept of community all
community involves exclusivity the
Jewish community is not all-inclusive
we're all embracing either you're Jewish
or you're not the Jamaican community is
not inclusive in all your breaking
either your Jamaican or your not and
again maybe your Caribbean but you're
not Jamaican maybe you can participate
to some extent without being Jamaican
maybe there's some role for you but
maybe not maybe there can exclude you
maybe they're gonna tell you you're not
welcome at the party because you're not
Jamaican this is the reality of the
exclusivity of community right and again
gay rights you know gay community I'm
not gay I'm probably welcome in some
places and not others there's some
events and not others ultimately the gay
community is exclusive and part of the
strength of the gay community is in
recognizing how fractious and
fragmentary it is that gays and lesbians
cooperate to some extent and in other
other events are you know mutually
exclusive
all the little categories for different
forms of transgendered people different
rights movements different professional
organizations just the gay Teachers
Association the gay architects
Association you know there can be really
important political struggles linked to
professions that way or linked to unions
you know teachers union the Catholic
teachers union what-have-you you know
there can be all of these really
specific struggles within that community
right community is exclusive but guess
what an actual movement when we're not
talking about gay the gay community
we're talking with a gay rights movement
we're not saying about the vegan
community no veganism is a diet vegan
community and then an actual organized
vegan political movement that's been
things yet very exclusive you know he
you know basically he his feelings we're
that he found vegan I don't know
whatever you want to call the vegan seen
to be very judgmental which you know it
makes sense and he felt ostracized by it
and I can't really blame him
you know and we do I mean like the clip
I played at the beginning we do get our
hearts broken we do get our feelings
hurt interesting element of things many
many ways I'm gonna close this video by
saying something I've said before which
is you know don't kid yourself your
feelings matter too it's not just the
feelings of meat-eaters that matter it's
not just the feelings of your fellow
vegans that matter if you're hurt if
you're upset you can be honest about
that with yourself you can be honest
about that with others
don't fall into the trap of a sort of
phony asceticism of pretending that
everyone else has feelings and everyone
else's feelings matter and that yours
don't when I was involved with First
Nations First Nations politics First
Nations is our term in Canada Americans
say American Indians are indigenous
people a lot of white people say things
that really offend me about that in
Canada that really hurt me that
something that matters to me still could
still happen today but I don't expect
anyone in China if you're born and
raised in China to be sensitive of those
issues I don't expect them to be
informed and expect them to care that's
our political struggle if you're a white
person born and raised in Canada it's
our problem it's our poverty
it's our genocide it's our failure yeah
it's our question for the future and I
think that all white people born and
raised in Canada have a very real moral
obligation to care about its care about
First Nations it's not just people who
are ethnically First Nations who care if
you're a Pakistani immigrant to Canada
and you choose to become a Canadian
citizen then I think it's your problem
too you're committed to it and you care
but no here in China I'm not gonna
lecture the Chinese about First Nations
politics and I'm not gonna get upset if
a Chinese person says something that's
offensive or racist or you know doesn't
care about the the history of
colonialism Canada's ridiculous but it's
very striking to me how often my fellow
white people in Canada would just be
astounded that someone would show real
emotion openly about First Nations
politics
and that to me is the same question you
know why would you think I would
suffocate that why do you think I'm not
entitled to my feelings on that and
certainly you can be the opposite
extreme I mean I think sometimes with
racial politics get into the misery
Olympics as I've said another video
where it just becomes about an
outpouring of emotion that's not what
I'm endorsing here but what is the
utility of pretending that you don't
care what is the particulate ii-in
pretending that your emotions are not
part of your political commitment are
not part of what motivates your
intellectual life when so clearly they
are one of the easiest things for vegans
to say is I'm vegan because I care I
pursue this political goal because this
is what I care about that's one of the
most natural and obvious things for any
of us to say and obviously you know if
you're in the tiny minority of white
people who chose to get seriously
involved in First Nations politics at
some point you know there's a connection
between feeling and knowing there there
must be an emotional aspect to it and
there is strength in self-discipline
there's strength and having control of
your emotions but the question is what
do you do with that control the fact
that you have control of your emotions
doesn't mean that you should use that
control exclusively to conceal or
suffocate your emotions I think there
really is value and sharing with others
your feelings and why you feel the way
you feel whether that's about veganism
First Nations Politics the history of
Cambodia or what have you
I've said many times this channel I
never wanted to reproduce the defects of
an academic lecture but I can ask you
what would be the point if I came on
here and gave you a completely dry and
factual lecture about the civil war in
Cambodia history of Laos Southeast Asia
or First Nations or veganism or any of
these topics ultimately my engagement
with my audience and my audience's
ability to sympathize with me
is probably gonna start with their
having an understanding of why do I care
in the first place only while you and
then I said why do I care why did I as a
white person who grew up in Canada
become engaged with a question like
history of Laos history of Cambodia a
history of slavery whatever the topic is
we're talking about it's very natural
for that emotional engagement to provide
a first step for intellectual engagement
and political engagement and of course
emotions get such a bad reputation
because too often people only take the
first step they only have the emotional
reaction and they don't back it up with
real intellectual rigor or real
political commitment hit me up